 FREE Hosting For WAREZ

Tutorial: Free Hosting For Warez (how to do it...)
By: darkraven (aka bobbasic)
Level: Average (takes time)

Place to stick your warez and how to do it.
if you have a file you wish to upload and its too large for a free webhost and you still want it online try this method.

www.rarlab.com: download rar and cut the file up into 1MB files.
Mass Rename them to .doc (i forgot how to do it but its via CMD)
www.hostultra.com: sign up for the free hosting, which has unlimited bandwidth and space with a REAL (yet not your main) hotmail account.
Upload the files via FTP

Goto www.projectw.org
and tell people the link ie. http://www.hostultra.com/blah/blah1.doc - blah100.doc
Use Flashget to download!

And there you have it, as long as the people on hostultra dont find your site your fine icon_razz.gif


Downsides:
hostultra only allows max file size of 1MB files.
hostultra does not allow .exe or .mp3

Hostultra:
Unlimited Data Transfer
Unlimited Disk Space
100mbps Network Connection
99.9% Uptime
Free Sub Directory ( hostultra.com/~you )
Cool yourname.vzz.net URL!
Free Subdomains ( Many domains to choose from! )
Free Domain Hosting ( yourdomain.com )
Custom Domain DNS Control ( A/CNAME/MX Records )
Browser and FTP Uploading
PHP / MySQL*
Unlimited Domains / Unlimited Subdomains
Free Search Engine Submission

Terms Of Use For HostUltra
# In addition to the above, User shall not upload onto their hostultra web space any of the following:

1. audio or video files of any type this includes but is not limited to .wma .wmv .wav .mp3 .avi .mpg .asf .mov (however flash and midi files are allowed);
2. spanned archives such as such as .z01 .rar .ace;
3. any binary files that are not linked to an html page on the Site;
4. sites which contain only (or mostly) downloadable files;
5. download sites of any kind, including but not limited to, shareware, freeware, trialware, demos, warez, appz, gamez, iso, cracks;
6. photo albums, image galleries or TGPs;

(THOUGH WHOS LISTENING TO THE RULES?!)

to make it less likely hostultra will delete your account, add a fake little site on there, like a few pages of crappy html about some stupid thing which has nothing to do with warez. (ie. bob's site)