How Download MP3s from Fanscape.com or other Streaming Audio/Video Page

Part1

1- Download “CoCSoft Stream Down” here:

http://www.projectw.org/viewtopic.php?t=40095&highlight=cocsoft+stream

2- Go to Fanscape.com or other Streaming Audio/Video Page (like MTV or VH1) search
for your Artist or Band, and play your song, a pop up will appear, with a
windows player preview, then, right clic on this player, and clic on “properties”

3- Will appear a options,stay in “File” tag, go down to “Location” Select all the link address and copy


4- Go to “CoCSoft Stream Down” program, and clic on “ADD” icon, and paste the link address, that u copied on the page, choose your directory to download, and clic in Ok


5- Now, You are downloading the .ASF File


Part 2

1- When you finished of download the .ASF File, open River Past Audio Converter

Download here: http://www.projectw.org/viewtopic.php?t=24947&highlight=river+past

Note: To extract audio from ASF (Advanced Systems Format) files to MP3 with River Past Audio Converter, you should have DirectX 8.0 or above (9.0 highly recommended), and Windows Media Format 9 runtime installed.

2- Once River Past Audio Converter is installed properly, launch Audio Converter.

3- Add File
Click on the "Add" button on the tool bar. The standard file open dialog appears. Select "Windows Media Video" in its "Files of type" combo box.

Select the file you want to convert and click "Open". The file will be added to the conversion file list.

4- Select output format
Use the "Audio Format" setting panel on the bottom of the window to control the output format. Select "MP3" as the "File Type".

You can change the sample rate, channel (stereo or mono) and bitrate. Audio CD's native format is 44.1 kHz, stereo.

5- Select output directory
Expand the "Output Directory" panel. Use the button to select an output directory.

6- Convert!
Click the "Convert" button on the tool bar.

7- Enjoy!!!


Important Notes:

1- The First part, can be used for VIDEOS file, just try it, I do it icon_lol.gif
2- This Tutorial is not 100% perfect, just do it
3- The final Quality from your Mp3, will sound like streaming Audio, cuz we
extract it from a streaming File(maybe 20 or 32 kb/s).
4- If u think, that I'm in a mistake or I'm a fool, please tell me, I will to
learn
5- if u wanna add something, plz Do it, We gonna appreciate your
colaboration