Msn Messenger & Gmail, Msn Messenger & Gmail

For All Thost Gmail Account Holders That Whish To Use A Gmail Account With Msn Messenger & .Net Passport Service

An Introduction

In this tutorial you will learn how to step up your Gmail Accout with . net passport to allow u to login to msn messenger ang any .net passport supported website


What you will need

* A Gmail Account - as thease are only obtainable via invitation i will assume you alredy have one .

* Msn Messenger / Windows Messenger - used to verify your gmail account.


Once you have downloaded / obtained all of thease you are ready to continue.



1. log in to your gmail account via -



http://gmail.com





once you are loged in minimize this internet browser window ( convenient or later on )

2. load up msn messenger and cansel any automatic signe in atempt so that you have it redy to signed in with your gmail account later on .

2. you will need to visit the Microsoft .Net Passport website -


http://www.passport.net




3. now you will need to click on the register for your free .net passport today button that is in the top right hand corner of thepage ya cant mis it its huge

4. that will take you to a registration page fill in the from as you would if you where filling a hotmail account accept when asked for your email account you would enter myaccount@gmail.com

5. once the registration of you .net registerd gmail account has been made , signe in to Msn messenger using this newly registerd account , you will notice that when you signe in to messenger your messenger name will be youraccount@gmail.com (un verified ) and you wont be able to change it , this is solved below.

6. as soon as you have signed in , a message will appere in an information box ( the same as when a contact signes in ) , click on this and you will be taken thugh the process of Verifying your account the reason you have to go thogh this is because at current gmail is not affiliated with .net passport e.g .netpassport dosent regonise the @gmail.com as a valid email provider there for they cannot automatically verify your account ( hotmail and msn auto verify as there .net passport affiliated websites) ,

7.once u have been taken though the verification process you will be asked to log in to your email account and visit the url given in an email form the .net passport verifcation service , maximize the internet browser window that you signed in to gmail on erlier , you will have 2 emails form .net passport the first will be welcomeing you to .netpassport , the second will be the one we are after , the verification email , open this up find the url to finish verifying your email adress ( usually its either the first to thirs url in the email)

8. once you have compleeted thease actions and you have been told that your gmail account is verifed , signe out of msn messenger , then re signe back in ( you dont need to wait for any period of time just signe out then straight back in agane) , you will now notice the (not verifed) had been removed form your msn name , and now you are able to change ther name to , if this is so m, then congratulations you now have a fully functioning .net passport gmail account ( you cannot access your gmail email account via msn messenger you will still have to visit the gmail login page for this )


http://gmail.com




9. if for any reasons this didnot work , and you agane reciece the message asking you to verify , or you havent recieved your verification email from .netpassport , then re-try steps 2 - 7 , un till you get it working correctly .


i hope this helps some of you gmail account users out there that have been wracking your brains over how to get gmail in to msn messenger
