  Steps to Clean Install XP

  If the above instructions for configuring your system to boot from  CD
  or you have acquired the necessary boot floppy/floppies; you can now
  boot the computer and follow the on screen prompts. Have your Product Key
  available, typical install is around 30 minutes. If setup seems to hang,
  wait at least 10 minutes + before restarting system. You should experience
  momentary screen blackouts.

  1. Power on the computer. Press the Pause/Break key as soon as you see 
     text on the screen. [If you currently are running in an OS of any flavor, 
     insert XP CD and restart computer. Skip to #3 if system is configured 
     to boot from CD.]


  2. Insert XP CD into CD drive. Press ENTER to resume booting from the XP CD.  
     (BIOS must support booting from CD and boot order must be set so CD 
     boots before hard drive. If computer does not support booting from CD 
     go to 2a for floppy install).

     2a. Floppy install: Boot from Win98/Me/Special XP install floppy
     disk with smartdrv.exe added to the boot disk; or the Win XP set
     of 6 floppy disks.

  3. Look for message "booting from CD" usually located at the bottom of
     the screen. If you have a factory splash screen, press ESC to unload
     it.

     3a. Floppy install: From the A Prompt; A:\type: smartdrv.exe. then
     press ENTER. If you are using the XP boot floppy setup disks skip
     to step #5.

  4. Press any Key when you see the prompt to "Press Any Key"

     4a. Floppy install: CD to the location of the CD-ROM drive with the
     XP setup files; CD to the i386 folder where you will type: winnt.exe
     to start setup.

  5. Setup will start copying files, if you need to install any third
     -   party or RAID drivers press F6 at this time. the copying of files
     can take awhile.

  6. Next you will get the option to repair or enter setup, choose to
     enter setup. Press ENTER. To see images full size, place mouse cursor
     over image and click/double click or press the left button and open.

  7. Press F8 if you agree to the license.

  8. Setup will scan for previous Windows installations

  9. If you are using the upgrade version of XP on a computer without
     any version of Windows currently installed, this is where you will
     replace the XP CD with your qualifying CD, XP setup will scan the
     qualifying CD and instruct you to replace it with the XP CD to continue
     XP setup; otherwise, you will not see this screen. Clean install
     qualifying media can be any of the following Win NT3.51, 4.0, 2000,
     Win 95, 98, Me. 10. Choose the location to install.

     10a If this is a clean hard drive, you can choose to create a
     partition in the un-partitioned space. At this point, you can allow
     Setup to use all the space or set a size for the partition.

     10b If the hard drive or partition has a previous installation of
     XP you want to remove, choose to delete the partition by pressing
     "D". You will then be prompted to create a new partition in the
     empty space. This will remove all data from the delete space.

     10c If you intend to use multiple partitions, or dual boot, this is
     where  you specify the size of the boot partition and or setup
     location for XP. If you are planning to dual boot XP, I would
     create a small 100 meg DOS  partition for the first primary partition,
     then an 8 to 10 gig partition for XP. You can partition and format
     the remaining space after XP is setup from Disk Manager. If you do not
     intend to dual boot, you can either use all the un-partitioned space,
     or create an 8 to 10 gig partition for XP and leave the rest free to
     partition later.

   Note: If a fat32 partition larger than 32 gigabyte is desired, the
   hard drive or partition will need to be created before running XP
   setup. XP will not create a fat 32 partition larger than 32 gig, but
   will support one previously created.

  11. Choose the file system from this screen. If dual booting and you
      created the small 100 meg partition, make it a fat partition. NTFS is
      configured at the optimal file size during the initial setup. See this
      link for more on NTFS

  12. If you have more that one partition or hard drive on your system,
      make sure you are formatting the correct partition/drive.

  13. Select F to continue.

  14. Setup will show a progress box and reboot when copying files is
      complete.

  15. When you see the "Press any Key to Reboot" do not Press any Key.
      If CD boots anyway, remove CD and reboot.

  16. From this point, you will follow the on screen prompts.

  17. If you live outside the US, you will probably need to modify the
      default settings.

  18. Personalize your XP Enter your Name and Organization.

  19. Enter the Product Key. The Key is located on the back of the CD folder
      in  the  Retail versions, and on a holographic label with the OEM
      versions purchased with a piece of hardware. Write this key down and
      secure it in a safe place in case the original is misplaced destroyed
      through natural causes or stupidity. 8-)

  20. Choose a name for the  computer, this should be a unique name for
      the computer, especially if it is to be connected to a network. In Pro,
      you are given the option of creating a password or leaving it blank.

  21. Set your Time Zone and Time and Date.

  22. Setup will scan for network.

  23.  If  detected you will have the choice to choose a typical
       configuration or custom. Choose typical if you are unsure.

  24. For home you will choose your workgroup, if a network is already
      established and you intend to connect to it, use the existing
      workgroup name, otherwise, I suggest using the default.

  25. For Pro, the same goes for Pro as suggested for Home, but you will
      have the choice to join a Domain, if you do  not have a Domain or  do
      not know leave blank.

  26. Setup will continue and reboot when completed ignore the "Press
      Any Key".

  27. The loading XP window will now display after reboot.

  28. You will see a change display settings, say yes, and accept the
      setting if you can see the screen after accepting.

  29. You will see a welcome screen, press next and unfortunately you
      have to wait for the dialog to finish.

  30. Set up you internet or network connection.

  31. This is the Activate, Register screen. You must activate within
      30 days of installing XP, but you do not ever have to register,
      Registration is completely optional and if you do not register, no
      personal information will be transmitted during activation. If you
      register, then activation will transmit that information along with
      the activation. The first Activation is usually done over the internet
      if the computer is connected to the internet, otherwise, it can be
      accomplished by copying the alphanumeric  string from the activation
      screen and make a phone call to the on screen supplied phone number.
      The activation center will then give you a slightly longer number to
      input into for activation. I suggest you do not activate immediately
      in case you need to make hard ware changes, or install to a different
      system within the thirty days, and you will be reminded on boot up
      until you do.

  Blaster worm warning: Do not immediately activate over the internet
  when asked, enable the XP firewall before connecting to the internet.
  You can activate after the firewall is enabled.
  Control Panel - Network Connections. Right click the connection you
  use, Properties, and there is a check box on the Advanced page.

  32. Setup users screen. Set at least one user for yourself or the person
      that will be using the computer.

  33. Thank You

  34.  Logon to XP and apply Service Pack and Critical updates from Windows
       Update before installing any software or hardware.

  35. Install your anti-virus software.

  36. Install all applications and setup your email.

  37. Restore from Files and Settings transfer after reinstalling all
      applications.

  Last updated 2/23/04 Michael Stevens MS-MVP
