                         THE ABC'S OF PAYPHONES PART 2.The information presented in this file is presented for entertainmentpurposes only.  The authors of this file take no responsibility for anyof its contents.Section 1:how to open a payphoneAn Atlantic Bell payphone is a heavily armored device.  It is designedto withstand attempted theft and damage.  But as we found out in part 1,we don't need to get through all the armor to phreak it.  All we need todo is get to the wiring which is all located behind 3 easy to removepanels. All that holds the front panel on is 3 or 4 bolts.  Just applysulfuric acid and in ten minutes or less they will come right out.While you are waiting remove the other panels.  The top panel is held onby two tight nuts.  A good pair of pliers will remove them.  Now theback panel is the hardest to remove.  It is held together by a semi-permanent solution.  On the newer AT&T credit and pay phones, an alarmgoes off when the back panel is removed.  The circuitry for it islocated in the top panel.  Look for a round box with 4 wires coming out.Cut the first and second ones.  Now use sulfuric acid, wait ten minutesand lift it off.  Section 2:How to steal a payphoneEver wanted to have your own payphone?  It's not very hard to steal one.As a matter of fact, it is easy to rip one out of the wall, but I wantto show you how to take one home intact.  Anyone traveling to Torontoshould stop by to see MR. C0SMOS' collection of payphones.  He has themset up and working.  Stealing payphones is very dangerous.  Much morethan phone boxing.  Do not steal more than one from an area.  Theysometimes know immediately when it's gone, so get the hell out of there.The inside of it is heavily armored.  If you are taking it for themoney, you will need a full set of philips & flathead screwdrivers,sulfuric acid, a crowbar, a sledgehammer, bolt cutters, and probablymore.  Now you can take it home and pound on it, or you can use the easyway we showed you in part one.In part 3 we will show you how to wire it up when you get it home andalot of other stuff.