                         THE ABC'S OF PAYPHONES PART 3The information presented in this file is for entertainment purposesonly.  The authors of this file take no responsibility for any of itscontents.Well our mail boxes having been filling up with questions regarding thisseries.  We will answer them all in future files.Ok, now you have your payphone home.  What do you do with it.  Well, ifyou want to make it work, you need to run up a five prong cable fromthe phone line in your basement.  The outlet in the wall won't work.Now, a two inch hole at the left front of it.  Remove the back panel(as described in part 1)  and disconnect the wires coming out of it.You will see them coming from silver screws.  Disconnect them all.  Nowmake sure you know which screws they came from.Now for some explaining.  You could just wire it up with the existingwires, but then it will make tones, so we are going to rewire it.You will need 10 heavy duty 7 inch wires for the next part.If you don't want it to accept money, skip this part.Take the 12 O'clock screw and connect it to the screw at the bottom ofthe totalizer. You will have to push it through, then take the topoff, and connect it. Connect the 2 O'clock screw to the green wire onthe silver box. Just cut the green wire from the box and connect them.Ok, now this is the part that makes them work. Take the silver boxwhich is hanging loose now (make sure the wires attached already don'tcome loose), and attach your 10 wires to the screws on the phone. Nowstarting at the left top of the silver box, hook the wires on counterclockwise starting with 3 O'clock, excluding 12, 2, 2:30, and 4.Now run the cable up through the bottom, and hook it to the front of thesilver box.  It should now work.Ok, now to answer a question.  A MAD! reader wants to know if you couldtrip the totalizer using a wire stuck up the coin slot.MR. C0SMOS answers that it would be very hard because of the bendsinvolved, and metal in the way.  You might be able to if you used anon-magnetic, very small, bendable rod.   Just keep going up, until youencounter a small lever, then move it. It would take alot of patience.Watch for part 4 soon.